all right let's bring in maram bashara
Al jaz's senior political analyst so Mar
and there we saw a bit of the the
history there of this long-term uh
strategy of assassinations against Hamas
leaders Israel's also talking about this
time not just picking them off
individually but wiping them all out I
mean how how does this fit into to the
longer term narrative well that
certainly has been the policy of the
past 50 plus years um in fact since the
um independence of Israel it has had a
policy of assassinations against
Palestinian leaders but certainly
accelerated in the 1970s against the PLO
leaders the fat leaders later on the
popular front leaders and then the
Democratic front leaders and then it
went on against um Al Jad islami on onto
hisbah Hamas and so on so forth It's
been 50 years of assassination programs
run by military intelligence and the Mad
throughout the the world really whenever
they could get them they targeted them
but the thing is that after those dozens
of assassinations and more right notably
we think about the three main
assassinations 1995 against al Jihad Al
islami founder fat shikaki 1995 2004
against the founder of Hamas Sheik Ahmed
Yasin and 2015 it was the assassination
of Ahad Mia was considered the military
man of hisbah right now in between as I
said there were dozens of other
assassinations or attempted
assassinations but what was the result I
mean Israel could have declared victory
at each time it as assassinated one of
those leaders but if you look at the
scope in general of the history of it Al
Jad islami became stronger Hamas became
stronger and hisbah became stronger and
all three organizations and other
organizations somehow found it in their
ranks to find even more potent more more
charismatic more powerful leaders to be
leading those organizations so as the
leading Israeli expert Yosi milman on
the Mad assassination program put it
only a few weeks ago he said 50 years of
it there isn't much to
show this time though they say they're
not just trying to Target people pick
them off this is part of a systematic
attempt to just wipe out Hamas as a
military and political entity I mean is
this a way of them showing that they are
starting to do that having not really
got very far in that particular War aim
inside Gaza I I actually think this is
uh very much so I think the objective at
this point in time now that the war on
children is winding down the war on
hospitals and is winding down the war on
doctors and engineers and schools and
residential buildings after 20 plus
thousand of Civilian casualties and tens
of thousands of other so sorts of
casualties among the
Palestinians now Israel decided not that
it run out of Civilian
targets it's running after Hamas leaders
apparently in Lebanon I've been saying
for the past uh few weeks that the main
target of Israel war in Gaza has been
the civilians because they're the ones
who really died the collateral damage
has been Hamas leaderships but yes as
you
say Israel has made it an objective of
this War to assassinate all Hamas
leaders if it can and clearly it's
starting here now with in Lebanon now is
this is this just part of a general
abstract opinion I mean program or is it
or is it a timing now here the Lebanese
prime minister Minister says that the
assassination in Lebanon is meant to
project the failure in Gaza onto Lebanon
I'm really sorry M we have to stop there
cuz we are breaking